Feat/6269 Add datastacks CLI framework to use template (#108)
amido/stacks-azure-data: datastacks/README.md

Reviewer: Have made some updates to this. Thinking however, whether it should just be added to the main `README.md`.

Author: I'm happy with whatever, will leave it up to you

Reviewer 2: I am changing docs quite heavily right now, so maybe when this is merged, I can add these contents to docs as well when this is merged? We can update it later if needed when we have this e2e testing of templating user story.

### Using the Datastacks CLI

* [Setup project environment](../README.md#developing-the-solution)
```bash
# Initiate Datastacks using poetry:
poetry run datastacks

# Run Datastacks from the command line
datastacks --help

# Alternatively, run using entrypoint script
python datastacks/datastacks_cli.py --help
```

## Generating data workloads

Datastacks can be used to generate all the resources required for a new data engineering workload - for example a data ingest pipeline. This will create all resources required for the workload, based upon templates within the [de_templates](../de_templates) directory.

- **`generate`**: This command contains subcommands which generate components for the data platform given a config file.

  - **`ingest`**: This subcommand utilises the template for ingest data pipelines, and uses a given config file to generate the required code for a new ingest pipeline ready for use. A flag can be included to specify whether or not to include data quality components in the pipeline

### Examples

```bash
# Generate resources for an ingest pipeline

> datastacks generate ingest --config-path="de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml"

Author: Done

# Generate resources for an ingest pipeline, with added Data Quality steps

> datastacks generate ingest --config-path="de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml" --data-quality

Author: Done

```

### Required config file

In order to generate a new data engineering workload the Datastacks CLI takes a path to a config file. This config file should be a yaml file and have the below format. A sample config file is included in the [de_templates](../de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml) folder.

```yaml
# Datalake containers

bronze_container: raw
silver_container: staging
gold_container: curated

# `dataset_name` parameter is used to determine names of the following ADF resources:
# - pipeline: Ingest_{{ dataset_name }}
# - dataset: ds_<dataset_name>
# - linked service: ls_<dataset_name>

> common:

Reviewer 2: Seems outdated

Author: Yup, my bad, fixing now

Author: Done

# Datastacks

[Datastacks](https://github.com/amido/stacks-azure-data/tree/main/Datastacks) is a Python library
built to support the Ensono Stacks Data Platform which can be used for various functions within the project.

At present the library works to ease usage of the templates within the [de_templates](https://github.com/amido/stacks-azure-data/tree/main/de_templates) directory, and provides a cli which can be used to generate new components to be used within a data platform.

## Key components

> The key components of datastacks currently include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The key components of Datastacks currently include:
```

- **Generate**: This command contains subcommands which generate components for the data platform given a config file. 

  - **Ingest**: This command utilises the template for ingest data pipelines, and uses a given config file to generate the required code for a new ingest pipeline ready for use. A flag can be included to specify whether or not to include data quality components in the pipeline

### Using CLI

```bash
datastacks --help
datastacks generate --help
datastacks generate ingest --help
datastacks generate ingest --config-path="de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml"
datastacks generate ingest --config-path="de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml" --data-quality
```

### Using an entrypoint script

```bash
python datastacks_cli.py --help
python datastacks_cli.py generate --help
python datastacks_cli.py generate ingest --help
python datastacks_cli.py generate ingest --config-path="de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml"
python datastacks_cli.py generate ingest --config-path="de_templates/test_config_ingest.yaml" --data-quality
```

## Required Config File

> For component generation, the Datastacks cli take a path to a config file. This config file should be a yaml file and have the below format. A sample config file is included in the templates folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For component generation, the Datastacks CLI takes a path to a config file. This config file should be a yaml file and have the below format. A sample config file is included in the de_templates folder.
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: Could you include the yaml here by referencing that file instead of a direct copy?

Author: Can do, I just thought it was useful to have in line aswell, but I'm not attached to that idea

Reviewer 2: It should be possible to add it in a way that it's rendered inline without actually copying and pasting the text itself.
